PDS_VERSION_ID        = PDS3                                                  
LABEL_REVISION_NOTE   = "Mark B. Vincent, June 1999"                          
                                                                              
RECORD_TYPE           = STREAM                                                
OBJECT                = TEXT                                                  
  INTERCHANGE_FORMAT    = ASCII                                               
  PUBLICATION_DATE      = 1998-01-16                                          
  PRODUCER_FULL_NAME    = "DAVID COLBURN"                                     
  NOTE                  = "ASCII description of NEP files"                    
END_OBJECT            = TEXT                                                  
                                                                              
END                                                                           
Description of nephelometer files in the data bank:                           
                                                                              
     This file describes the data obtained by the Galileo Probe Nephelometer  
during the descent into the Jupiter atmosphere on December 7, 1995.           
The total time of data acquisition was less than two hours before the         
destruction of the probe in the Jupiter atmosphere.                           
                                                                              
     The Nephelometer measured light scattering at 900 nm wavelength at       
five angles in order to determine properties of aerosol particles and clouds  
encountered during descent.                                                   
                                                                              
     References describing the instrument include                             
     1.  Ragent, B., C. A. Privette, P. Avrin, J. G. Waring, C. E. Carlston,  
T. C. D. Knight and J. P. Martin, Galileo Probe Nephelometer Experiment,      
Space Science Reviews, 60, 179-201, 1992.                                     
     2.  Ragent, B., D. S. Colburn, P. Avrin and K. A. Rages, Results of the  
Galileo Probe Nephelometer Experiment, Science, 272, 854-856, 1996            
     3.  Ragent, B., D. S. Colburn, K. A. Rages, T. C. D. Knight, P. Avrin,   
G. S. Orton and G. W. Grams, The Clouds of Jupiter:  Results of the Galileo   
Jupiter Mission Probe Nephelometer Experiment, to appear in Journal of        
Geophysical Research, Planets, 1998.                                          
                                                                              
     The data are in tabular form in ASCII format, and thus can be read easily
by FORTRAN (or similar) programs.  There are 21 files.  Each starts out with  
a header in ASCII which describes the content of the columns and which a      
FORTRAN program should skip over before reading the data.                     
                                                                              
     The following are the 24 data files in the volume:                       
File  1 - raw.dat   Raw data. This is the hexadecimal information from the    
                     probe. A description of this file follows this table     
                     of contents.                                             
File  2 - ptz.dat   Probe Descent Data. Pressure, temperature and altitude.   
File  3 - elecoffs.dat  Electronic Offsets, Counts.  An offset measurement    
                         made periodically.                                   
File  4 - srcalign.dat  Source Monitors and Alignment Detector Readings,      
                         Counts.                                              
File  5 - tempvolt.dat  Forward, Backward and Electronics Temperature Sensor  
                         Readings, in Degrees C, and Voltage Monitor,         
                         in Counts.                                           
File  6 - gain.dat      Gain of 16 Degree Channel Electronics.                
File  7 - contam.dat    Contamination Channel Readings, Counts.               
File  8 - scatter.dat   Scatter Data, Counts.                                 
File  9 - fittemp.dat   Fitted Temperature Profiles, Fitted to a Ninth        
                         Order Polynomial                                     
File 10 - xsec11.dat Cross Sections with No Adjustment of Baseline and Using  
                      Pre-Launch Calibration Data Extrapolated to Cover       
                      Out-of-Range Temperatures.                              
File 11 - xsec12.dat Cross Sections with No Adjustment of Baseline and Using  
                      Both Pre-Launch Calibration Data and Post-Encounter     
                      Test Data to Cover Out-of-Range Temperatures            
                      Experienced during Probe Descent.                       
File 12 - xsec21.dat Cross Sections with Adjustment of Baseline to Zero       
                      at Measurement Number 14 (p = 0.510 bars) and Using     
                      Pre-Launch Calibration Data Extrapolated to Cover Out-  
                      of-Range Temperatures Experienced during Probe Descent. 
File 13 - xsec22.dat Cross Sections with Adjustment of Baseline to Zero at    
                      Measurement Number N=14 (p=0.510 bars) and Using Both   
                      Pre-Launch Calibration Data and Post-Encounter Test     
                      Data to Cover Out-of-Range Temperatures Experienced     
                      during Probe Descent.                                   
File 14 - xsec31.dat Cross Sections with Adjustment of Baseline to Zero       
                      at Measurement Number 24 (p = 0.627 bars) and Using     
                      Pre-Launch Calibration Data Extrapolated to Cover Out-  
                      of-Range Temperatures Experienced during Probe Descent. 
File 15 - xsec32.dat Cross Sections with Adjustment of Baseline to Zero       
                      at Measurement Number N=24 (p=0.627 bars) and Using     
                      Both Pre-Launch Calibration Data and Post-Encounter     
                      Test Data to Cover Out-of-Range Temperatures            
                      Experienced during Probe Descent.                       
File 16 - xsec41.dat Cross Sections with Adjustment of Baseline to Zero       
                      at Measurement Number 60 (p = 1.345 bars) and Using     
                      Pre-Launch Calibration Data Extrapolated to Cover       
                      Out-of-Range Temperatures Experienced during            
                      Probe Descent.                                          
File 17 - xsec42.dat Cross Sections with Adjustment of Baseline to Zero       
                      at Measurement Number N=60 (p=1.345 bars) and Using     
                      Both Pre-Launch Calibration Data and Post-Encounter     
                      Test Data  to Cover Out-of-Range Temperatures           
                      Experienced during Probe Descent.                       
File 18 - xsec51.dat Cross Sections with Adjustment of Baseline to Zero       
                      at Measurement Number 69 (p = 1.621 bars) and Using     
                      Pre-Launch Calibration Data Extrapolated to Cover       
                      Out-of-Range Temperatures Experienced during            
                      Probe Descent.                                          
File 19 - xsec52.dat Cross Sections with Adjustment of Baseline to Zero       
                      Both at Measurement Number N=69 (p=1.621 bars) and      
                      Using Pre-Launch Calibration Data and Post-Encounter    
                      Data Test to Cover Out-of-Range Temperatures            
                      Experienced during Probe Descent.                       
File 20 - xsec61.dat Cross Sections with Adjustment of Baseline to Zero       
                      at Measurement Number 117 (p = 3.603 bars) and Using    
                      Pre-Launch Calibration Data Extrapolated to Cover       
                      Out-of-Range Temperatures Experienced during            
                      Probe Descent.                                          
File 21 - xsec62.dat Cross Sections with Adjustment of Baseline to Zero       
                      at Measurement Number N=117 (p=3.603 bars) and Using    
                      Both Pre-Launch Calibration Data and Post-Encounter     
                      Test Data to Cover Out-of-Range Temperatures            
                      Experienced during Probe Descent.                       
File 22 - senstemp1.dat Sensitivities for each scatter channel, normalized to 
                         1.000 at 15C, and extrapolated from pre-launch tests 
                         on the Flight Unit.                                  
File 23 - senstemp2.dat Sensitivities from pre-launch tests on the Flight     
                         Unit,  normalized to 1.000 at 15 C, and modified     
                         using post-encounter data.                           
File 24 - baseoffs.dat  Baseline offsets versus temperature measured with     
                         the flight unit in the laboratory.                   
                                                                              
                                                                              
     File 1 contains all of the Nephelometer data transmitted back            
during the encounter, in hexadecimal form.  They were taken directly from     
the file NEP0701A.SDM, sent from the project office in July 1996.             
                                                                              
     Column 1 has the line number.  Each nephelometer frame is identified by  
a block of 20 lines beginning with the sync word EB 90 followed by the        
nephelometer frame number in hexadecimal format.  Since a nephelometer frame  
is composed of data from 20 consecutive spacecraft frames, frame number zero  
contains data from lines 1 through 20, and the frame number for later data is 
obtained by the integer division of ( line number - 1 ) by 20.                
                                                                              
     Useful data ended at line number 878, and two lines of zeros have been   
added to complete nephelometer frame 43.                                      
                                                                              
     As an aid to understanding hexadecimal format, the following examples    
are shown:  Hexadecimal frame numbers  9,  A,  F, 10, 1A, and 20              
           have the decimal equivalent 9, 10, 15, 16, 26, and 32.             
                                                                              
     Column 3 contains the number 5 for A string data and 6 for B string data.
The file NEP0701A.SDM contains both, and where they overlap, the data is      
identical, except for a few lines where it is obvious which choice should be  
made. This data set contains only A string data, because it is a complete set 
and where B string data exists there is no reason for preferring it over the  
A string data.                                                                
                                                                              
     Column 2 shows in decimal notation the probe minor frame number          
transmitted by the probe, cycling from 0 through 63.                          
                                                                              
     The minor frame number, and the date and time of transmission, are not   
essential to interpreting the nephelometer data, since the timing of the      
measurements is asynchronous with the time of transmission.  The first minor  
frame with nephelometer data is minor frame number 1.                         
                                                                              
     Columns 5 through 10 are the Universal Time and date assigned to each    
minor frame.  Columns 5 and 6 represent December 7, 1995.  Columns 7 and 8    
give the minute and hour, in that order, so that for example the numbers      
7, 16 represent 2207 U.T.  Columns 9 and 10 give the seconds and milliseconds.
The first digit of column 10 generally increases by 1 for each line because   
the minor frames were transmitted at intervals of very nearly 4 seconds.      
After every 15 lines, column 7 is expected to increase by one, representing   
an addition of one minute.                                                    
                                                                              
The remaining columns (11 through 15) contain the nephelometer data.          
                                                                              
Every twenty lines contains one nephelometer frame, the start of which        
is identified by a code word EB 90.  The next two digits comprise the         
nephelometer frame number, supplied by the nephelometer clock, beginning      
with frame 0 at startup and ending at frame 43 (hexadecimal notation 2B).     
Since the data set is complete, the frame numbers are found where the         
index is 1, 21, 41, etc., with the frame number equaling (index - 1)/20.      
                                                                              
The first several words comprise the engineering data for the frame and       
they are followed by the words for the nephelometer measurements.             
                                                                              
     In the hexadecimal printout, a frame contains 100 words of 8 bit         
length.  To unpack the data, we have strung the words together to recover     
the original group of 800 binary bits, and then extracted the 10 bit          
nephelometer words along with the 8 and 2 bit housekeeping data.  Rollover    
corrections had to be applied to some of the housekeeping data when the       
analog signals representing temperature, etc., exceeded the expected          
range of the analog to digital converter.  The unpacked data, in counts,      
are shown in Files 3 through 8.                                               
                                                                              
                                                                              
     File 2 relates the time of each measurement to the atmospheric pressure  
and temperature and the probe altitude as determined by the ASI experiment.   
Thus the data in the remaining files are labelled by atmospheric pressure     
in order to relate nephelometer findings to the atmospheric environment.      
                                                                              
                                                                              
     Files 9 through 21 are cross sections computed according to              
the parameters described in the headings.  (See reference 3)                  
                                                                              
                                                                              
     Files 22 are the sensitivities for each scatter channel, normalized to   
1.000 at 15 C, and extrapolated from pre-launch tests on the Flight Unit      
(tests performed from -20 C to + 50 C), versus T1, the temperature for the    
forward scatter channels, or T2, the temperature for the backscatter          
channel. Both the temperatures and the sensitivities have been fitted by a    
9th order polynomial, fit to the measured data.                               
                                                                              
                                                                              
     Files 23 are the sensitivities from pre-launch tests on the Flight Unit  
(tests performed from -20 C to + 50 C),  normalized to 1.000 at 15 C, and     
modified outside of these laboratory test temperature limits by insights      
obtained from  tests of the Spare Flight Unit performed after probe encounter 
with Jupiter, versus T1, the temperature for the forward scatter channels, or 
T2, the temperature for the backscatter channel. Both the temperatures and    
the sensitivities have been fitted by a 9th order polynomial, fit to the      
laboratory measured data.                                                     
                                                                              
                                                                              
     Files 24 are the baseline offsets versus temperature were measured for   
the flight unit in the laboratory at temperatures from about -20 to 50 C and  
are extrapolated to the values listed here. Since baseline offsets are        
principally believed to be due to induced ground currents, the value of       
offset may have been strongly affected by the final configuration of the      
instrument in the vehicle. Therefore the values in this file must be          
judiciously employed for the actual flight case data, for which the           
instrument was mounted on the probe and deployed during encounter. Although   
the data in this file are included for completeness, for alternative          
procedures the user is referred to Ragent et al., The clouds of Jupiter:      
Results of the Galileo Jupiter Mission Probe Nephelometer Experiment,         
J. Geophys Res., 103, 22891-22909, 1998.                                      
